springtime in a lush oak forest and a
male pied flycatcher sings for sex
his song attract a female and he shows
her their future family home natural
nest holes are hard to find so males all
over Europe now commonly choose boxes
suitably impressed
the female moves in once mated she
starts to lay their eggs but even before
she has completed the clutch and started
to incubate her partner has slipped away
to pursue other interests the forest is
full of more nest sites and he plans to
woo a mistress into one of them another
female is charmed by his call and
tempted into his second box to breed but
as soon as she lays eggs he races across
the forest back to his wife his chicks
have now hatched and he plays the model
father the male started this family
early in the season and guarded the
female against other would-be mates with
Lux he will have fathered all of these
chicks so it is worth his while to help
this female bring up the babies back at
the mistress's nest life is not so easy
she has been cheated the male has not
returned she is now a single mother
keeping her tiny chicks warm and finding
enough food is an almost impossible task
meanwhile the first nest is thriving but
the second family are now suffering the
male's deception is taking its toll and
the young are beginning to perish
there are now just three chicks left
alive in the nest only the strongest
will survive as one family struggles the
other flourishes five healthy fledglings
are being tempted out of the nest into
the forest by their parents the sneaky
males activities as a bigamist have not
compromised the success of this family
at all the mistress's struggle is almost
over this time the cheating male seems
to have benefited hands-down with the
bonus of two extra chicks
you